Item number three, ad one nine five.
Good morning and thank you very much, Mr.
Chairman and members.
Today I present to you AB 195.
And I think I could get started.
Well, my witnesses are coming up.
AB 195 protects individual privacy by cracking down on websites that assist in the solicitation of a hacker to illegally access a computer network or smartphone.
As we know, cybercrimes have significant and long lasting effects on crimes because the personal information, when stolen, can result in identity theft, fraud, and personal embarrassment, all of which could take years to recover from, if ever.
Under current law, it is a crime to knowingly hack into another's computer network without permission.
But it is not a crime to solicit someone to hack into someone's computer without permission.
In recent years, we have seen the growth of socalled hacker for hire websites where individuals solicit hackers to perform certain projects.
Some of these websites provide a platform for individuals seeking illegal hacking services from unethical hackers, such as installing spyware on devices and gaining access to emails, social media accounts, and client list of the victims.
AB 195 will hold websites accountable for the content that they promote and also provide law enforcement agencies with a tool to deter those who wish to commit these cyber crimes.
With that, I have two witnesses here today.
I'd like to ask them to introduce themselves.
Mr.
Chairman, members, Dan Philosauth on behalf of Los Angeles County District Attorney's office in Los Angeles.
The district attorney has been tasked with ensuring the security of the entire county's computer network.
As such, our specialized deputies and investigators in a high tech crimes division monitor the dark web where you see these hacker for higher websites.
We frequently have attacks on the La.
County system.
This bill will help defend that.
In addition, our stocking and threat assessment unit, domestic violence family violence unit, and our sexual assault units frequently come across cases in which an abuser or perpetrator has illegally accessed the victims, either smartphones or computer networks to track their movements, to get access to personal information.
These are very serious crimes, and our office believes that being able to crack down on an individual when they simply post the intent to have somebody be hired to do these types of illegal activities will help protect victims and government institutions as well as private companies.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning, Mr.
Chairman and members.
Lieutenant Wayne billoward on behalf of Los Angeles county sheriff's department.
First off, we apologize for not getting our letter in on time.
We've been a little inundated with bills recently, so we apologize to the committee for that.
But we are very much so in support for all the reasons stated by the district attorney's office.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you.
And thank you for being so brief.
All right, other witnesses and support sean.
Hoffman with the California district attorneys association in support.
Khalif Oscar guy with the California public defenders association in support.
John lovell, california college and university police chiefs association, la.
Police Protective League, association of La Deputy Sheriffs and Riverside Sheriff's Association.
All in support.
Thank you.
All right.
Moved by assembly member Gonzalez, seconded by vice chair Melindez.
Let's see witnesses in opposition.
All right.
There being no witnesses in opposition.
Do we have questions or comments from the committee?
All right, you may close.
I respectfully asked her.
I vote.
I am very enthusiastic about this bill.
We've all had friends who've been hacked.
Maybe you have been, too.
You get these crazy emails from their account where they're in London and they ran out of cash.
It's endemic.
And unfortunately, there are lots of tools out there for doing this.
There are people for hire.
I think this is a very sensible bill.
I commend you for bringing it forward.
My recommendation is I thank you very much.
Secretary, you may call.
The roll motion is due pass to the Privacy Committee.
Quirk aye.
Quirk ayendez.
I Gonzal.
Gonzalez.
I lackey.
I low.
I Santiago.
Very good.
Fill us out.
Congratulations.
Thank you very much.
Ever.
