Item number three AB 195.
Good morning and thank you very much Mr Chairman and members. Today I present to you AB 195.And, I think I could get started while my witnesses are coming up.
AB 195 protects individual privacy by cracking down on websites that assist in the solicitation of a hacker to illegally access a computer network or smart phone.
As we know cyber crimes have significant and long lasting effects on crimes because the personal information, when stolen, can result in identity theft, fraud, and personal embarrassment, all of which could take years to recover from if ever.
Under current law, it is a crime to knowingly hack into another's computer network without permission, but it is not a crime to solicit someone to hack into someone's computer without permission.
In recent years we have seen the growth of so-call hacker for hire websites where individuals solicit hackers to perform certain projects.
Some of these website provide a platform for individuals seeking illegal hacking device services from unethical hackers such as installing spyware on devices and gaining access to social media accounts and client list of the victims.
AB 195 will hold websites accountable for the content that they promote and also provide law enforcement agencies with a tool to deter those who wish to commit decide crimes. With that, I have two witnesses here today I'd like to ask them to introduce themselves.
Mr Chairman and Members Dan Felizzatto on behalf of the Los Angeles County District Attorney's office. In Los Angeles the District Attorney has been tasked with insuring the security of the entire county's computer network.
As such our specialized deputies and investigators in our high-tech crimes division monitor the dark web where you see these hacker for hire websites. We frequently have attacks on the LA county system this bill will help defend that.
In addition, our stalking and threat assessment unit, domestic violence, family violence unit, and our sexual assault units frequently come across cases in which an abuser or perpetrator has illegally accessed the victims either smart phones or computer networks to track their movements, to get access to personal information.
These are very serious crimes and our office believes that being able to crack down on an individual when they simply post the intent to have somebody be hired to do these types of illegal activities will help protect victims and government institutions as well as private companies. Thank you.
Thank you
Good morning Mr Chairman and Members, Lieutenant Wayne Bilowit on behalf of Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. First off, we apologize for not getting our letter in on time we've been little inundated with bills recently, so we apologize to the Committee for that.
But we are very much so in support for all the reasons stated by the District Attorney's Office. Thank you sir.
Thank you and Thank you for being so brief. All right other witnesses in support.
Sean Hoffman with the California District Attorneys Association in support.
Caliph Assagai with the California Public Defenders Association in support.
John Lovell with the California College and University Police Chiefs Association, LA Police Protective League, Association of LA Deputy Sheriffs, and Riverside Sheriff's Association all in support.
All right move by Assembly Member Gonzalez, second by a Vice Chairman Melendez.
All right, let's see witness is an opposition. All right there being no witnesses in opposition, do we have questions or comments from the Committee? All right you may close.
I respectfully ask for your I vote.
I am very enthusiastic about this bill. We've all had friends who've been hacked, maybe you have been too. You get these crazy emails from their account where, you know, they're in London and they ran out of cash.
I mean it's endemic and unfortunately there are lots of tools out there for doing this, there are people for hire. I think this is a very sensible bill I commend you for bringing it forward my recommendation is I.
Thank you very much.
Secretary may call the roll.
Motion is due past to the Privacy Committee.
Very good. Bill's out congratulations.
Thank you very much everyone.
